- What I wanna talk about
today is recommended
nutrition specifically,
micro nutrients or vitamins,
antioxidants and cellfirm
are in that same category.
So, we've been told
ever since we were kids,
your mother told you
you need your vitamins,
you need to eat your vegetables
cause you need your vitamins.
So the question is,
are the recommendations correct?
And then the second question is,
judged by what?
Like long life, disease
avoidance, performance.
Clearly not performance,
we will be measuring
performance for the last,
let's say, 100 years really.
And a lot of these recommendations
are from way before that.
So lemme start off
with a study that came out in 2010.
Now this is in the journal of
The International Society
of Sports Nutrition.
So prevalence of micro nutrient deficiency
and popular diet plans.
So they compared
the availability of micronutrients
in varying different types of plants.
So they compared the DASH
diet, the South Beach diet,
the Atkins diet, which is
basically just the ketogenic diet
and I believe one other.
No, it was it was those three.
So DASH and South Beach are heading in,
I think DASH is pretty much
all vegetables and some meats,
in South Beach is somewhere in between
and Atkins is primarily meats
and animal products
and then animal proteins I should say.
And then it's.
Move the microphone a little closer to me.
Yeah.
And then vegetables.
So what was looked at was
to the get the recommended
daily values, what was required?
What was the nutrient
value that was required?
How many calories were required
for somebody to get
this level of nutrients
from the recommended daily
intakes administered by the
FDA or published by the FDA.
So the answer was 27,000 calories
of whole foods would need
to be ingested on average
to get to the minimum dosages
of the 27 micronutrients.
27,000 calories per day.
So my question when reading this
now of course, the conclusion in study is,
so people definitely need
to take a multivitamin.
Or the recommended daily intake
by the FDA is,
something wrong with it.
Doesn't make any sense
because last I checked
homo sapiens we're
thriving on this planet,
and they didn't,
they certainly didn't eat
27,000 calories per day.
And also, you have to consider
that just about anybody
from just about any place.
Maybe ate one or two
different types of things.
If you were a Native
American, you ate bison,
and maybe some kind of berries
or plants when they were blooming.
Like for a couple weeks,
that's about it.
And if you're a Viking
you're eating whale blubber.
If you were some Nordic countries,
I shouldn't call the Vikings.
I'm not sure that's offensive or not.
Actually they should find that pretty cool
because Vikings are awesome.
Let's see if you were from, you know,
Mediterranean you ate fish
because that's what was there.
So the idea these micronutrients
are just so required for
for disease avoidance is kind
of strange, kind of silly.
And it seems an awful lot like
the people who wrote those
recommendations were like
in a vitamin sales business,
just seems that way.
I mean, hey, that's conspiracy theory
and maybe these things
were developed out of
some sort of responsibility
though you know,
we don't really know these
came a long time ago.
But then after this,
there was a 2011 study
from the University of Minnesota,
which showed that people
that took multivitamins
died younger than people who
do not take multivitamins.
The same year Cleveland
Clinic came up with vitamin E
being attributed to higher
prevalence of prostate cancer.
And these recommendations may
all go back to actually or at
least on the higher levels,
the talk track about vitamins.
It became much more popular in the 1940s,
when Linus Pauling started saying you have
10 times the recommended daily allowance
of vitamin C,
you're never gonna get a cold
or you have a cold go away.
And that was tested a number
of times after he said it
and that was found to be untrue.
Though, it was exciting and
possibly the press picks up
on exciting things more often
than they pick up on,
you know.
Something that's not so
exciting or bad news.
So it was hopeful and
then after that was pretty well disproven.
Professor Pauling started
saying that vitamin C was also
the cure for cancer, which was
also very quickly disproven.
And the despite winning, I
think was two Nobel prizes,
he wasn't very popular after that
because he just kinda
made these things up.
And the other interesting
argument about antioxidants.
So this is really why we
talk about antioxidants.
Antioxidants are really
where electrons are borrowed
to stop something that is oxidizing.
So again, interesting theory.
Now that also is predicated on the idea
that you have inflammation,
you're oxidizing on the
inside of your body.
When we have an anti-inflammatory diet,
like a ketogenic diet or a carnivore diet,
well then don't you have inflammation.
So what would you need in antioxidants for
if you're not oxidizing?
You wouldn't.
So also, there's sort of a logic problem
that you need to have this one thing
to keep from all these
things that come from vegetables,
which are poisonous from hurting you.
So you have to have
derivatives of other vegetables
and fruits,
the antioxidants to protect
you from these things.
Which just seems
illogical to me.
And it's a bit of an oversimplification
but ultimately,
even a Harvard School of Public Health
has said some pretty
strong things about antioxidants
and vitamins in general.
And just pointing out
it's not saying "Don't go and
take any of these things,"
just saying there's a lot of hype there
and may not be the
validity there that you are,
you are looking for that
may be protecting you.
So hence a Falsehood of Fitness episode
on vitamins and micronutrients.